# Final-year-masters-project-scripts
This repository contains the scripts used by Kester Bevin Bataringaya Tindi for his final year research project in partial  fulfillment of the requirement for the award of master of science in bioinformatics of Makerere University.

## Project title 
"Unravelling the genetic risk associated with major depressive disorder among an African ancestry population."

## Project summary
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disorder and a global health burden characterised by a pervasive low mood and an inability to feel pleasure in normally pleasurable activities. Most MDD genetic studies have been carried out mainly on European ancestry populations limiting the generalisability of findings to non-European populations like the highly diverse African population. This study aimed to investigate the common genetic variants and  other risk factors (sociodemographic, psychosocial, psychosomatic) associated with MDD among general out-patient participants from an African ancestry population attending the NeuroGAP study (https://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/9/2/e025469). The NeuroGAP is a neuropsychiatric genetics consortium that is investigating the genetic risk of psychosis (schizophrenia or bipolar disorder) among participants from four major African countries of Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, and South Africa. Access to the study data was granted to use this data for this research project by the principal investigators of the study. A case-control study was carried out on 13,616 control participant data from the parent NeuroGAP study for whom phenotypic data was currently available and 653 of these participants also had genome wide association study (GWAS) data available. These participants were recategorised as MDD cases and MDD free controls using a Kessler psychological distress scale (K10) cut-off score of 13. The participant sample data was analysed using a GWAS pipeline generated using R software, a functional mapping and annotation tool (FUMA) and binomial regression for the phenotype analyses. 
